Good afternoon everybody.
I'm Glenn Bullich on the
QuickTime marketing team.
You are in session 726,
QuickTime Case Studies.
And we have the privilege
today to talk to the folks who
delivered all of the media for
the South by Southwest conference.
And if you're not familiar
with this conference,
it's the largest conference for
independent music in the world.
And we have some 1300 bands get
together and perform for a large
audience and other bands and hopefully
lots of artists and repertoire people
who are adding independent bands
and unsigned bands into labels.
And clearly the last several
years have been really,
really important for independent music.
Most notably the internet arising as a
way of merchandising and a way of getting
bands to be able to promote themselves
without being captive or accepted.
And that's excluded from radio
and some of the promotion vehicles
that are available to major labels.
And the team at South by Southwest this
year sort of went over and above,
not only delivering thousands
of MP3s from all these bands and
delivering video from the panels,
but also allowing or leveraging some
of the technologies including wireless
and streaming to cross-pollinate
between all the different clubs and the
performances and that kind of stuff.
So, pretty packed session,
pretty in-depth.
I'll turn it over to Scott Wilcox.
And if we have questions,
let's save them to the end and come
up to the microphones and say your
name and company name and we'll do
our best to answer all the questions
and I'll kick it off to these guys.
Okay, my name is Gary Woodcock and this
is Scott Wilcox and we're going
to talk to you a little bit about
how we have done our production
workflow at South by Southwest.
And I guess this is... That's right.
Yeah.
So, sorry, I got confused there.
So this is just kind of an overview
of what we're going to talk about.
We want to explain kind of
what South by Southwest is,
what it's about,
how we've used QuickTime in our workflow
for production for music and for video,
how we've used QuickTime to
help us promote the event,
how, you know,
we've delivered the media that
we've created during the event,
we'll talk a little bit about
some of the experiments that we've
conducted during the course of the
last few years during the event,
and go over a few ideas that we have
for future directions of how we might
use QuickTime to help us in the future.
Along the way,
what we hope to do is help you learn
a little bit about how you can use
Apple technologies to help you do these
kinds of things for your own promotions
or production delivery sorts of things.
We've used iTunes and QuickTime and
Rendezvous and a lot of different
Apple technologies to really streamline
the process of delivering media
for South by Southwest attendees
and people who aren't attending
the show but come and look at the
media that's available online.
So just to give you an overview
of what South by Southwest is,
it's, as Glenn said,
the largest sort of event
of its type in the world.
There's various components.
It all overlaps.
And for the last 10 years, specifically,
we've been focusing on
convergence of the film,
music,
and interactive technology industries.
So to sort of break it down,
we also have an
exhibition and trade show.
It happens in March every year in Austin,
and we're in our 19th year for music and
our 12th year for film and interactive.
In terms of attendance,
it's a large group of attendees
who are sort of registered and
can attend the panel sessions.
And then there's specialties.
We have a lot of special events.
And in the nighttime
during the music festival,
we have the bands play on 60
stages around Austin for four days.
So interactive.
Basically our focus here is we do a lot
of panels and conference programming and
the sort of community that has involved
itself most heavily over the years is
really working with web technologies,
blogging, the entertainment industry,
we have designers,
and all these people kind of come to
sort of talk about the challenges,
the unique challenges that are facing
them in their event and how can
they also use the tools they've been
developing to leverage the music
industry and the film industry to
put sort of products in the hands of
executives who are running labels,
independent labels, major labels,
people who are in licensing.
So we have a web awards show
which is focused on trying to
acknowledge the best work we feel
done in the web over the last year.
And all in all, the interactive event
has about 3200 attendees,
which has been growing significantly
every year and the event tries to
reflect what's going on in this space.
And we've been moving more towards
we have a wireless track and we're
talking more about mobile content
delivery and basically what's happening,
we just try to reflect it.
For the film, our emphasis here is
really independent film.
You've got a tremendous amount of talent
out there that have been making fantastic
films that have been picked up and
distributed by large distribution houses.
And then we try to bring the
directors who are really notable and
working in the field of independent
film like Robert Rodriguez,
initially at least, in independent,
kind of broken through
now to the sort of majors.
Richard Linklater, similar story,
really put Austin on the map
with Slacker in the beginning.
And then we've got Jim Jarmusch.
We've had any number of other
filmmakers over the years.
Our focus as far as the
festival goes is premieres.
We try to premiere as many
regional and world films.
We try to do as many films as possible.
We have about eight venues.
We do about 200 films over 10 days.
So we complement the conference aspect
of the event with this film festival,
which then creates a forum for buyers,
distribution, people looking to work
in independent film.
And then we've got a consumer base,
which basically is comprised mostly of
fans that also come in and see the films.
So to give you an idea
of the scope there,
this year we had about 30,000 single
admission entries into the films,
so 30,000 people in seats basically.
And from that, a lot of these films go
on to find distribution.
And we were able to arrange special
screenings like Jim Jarmusch's
film Coffee and Cigarettes played
there this year in addition to,
who else, Robert Duvall did something,
Code 46.
And then we had a couple of other
films that premiered there this year,
which is Tim Robbins' independent film.
So that's going on.
There's over 3,000 attendees for that.
And that sort of happens simultaneously
with the interactive event.
We've got both people in the same
buildings in just separate rooms
and then we do crossover panels.
So people can sort of meet
and mingle in that arena.
For music, this is probably the
cornerstone of our event,
mostly because it's
been going the longest.
And we've been able to develop a lot of
the music that we've been able to do.
We've been able to develop a
robust international reputation
with a large European contingency
and Asian contingency.
We have a European rep, an Asian rep.
We have a Pacific rem
rep down in Australia.
And we really try to
pull the best talent,
the emerging talent from around
the world and the industry that
supports them from managers,
the labels they're working with,
publicists come.
And people come to really see, okay,
I'm going to do this.
I'm going to do that.
And they're like, "Okay,
what's the stuff going on
now?" So because of that,
we're focused largely in the indie scene.
You know,
we've got smaller indies and your
more established indies like Sub Pop.
And this really -- what we've seen,
interestingly enough,
is that that is really thriving now.
As the larger labels and
distribution houses continue
to merge and merge and merge,
we've seen that,
with the tools given to people,
they're really able to get into the
industry and get into people in rich
media and on the Internet and websites,
that more independent houses have been
taking advantage of implementing new
media as a strategy for promotion.
And the end result is that sales
have been through the roof.
I've got a friend who's the
director of sales at Sub Pop,
and he says, "We're doing well." And this
is really encouraging news,
I think, for the music industry overall.
So 8,000 people there.
This is an example of one clip we
did with QuickTime during the event.
We shot this with minimal
production on mini DV and then
edited it in Final Cut Pro,
compressed with Cleaner 6,
and delivered it the day after.
Sort of we compressed overnight
and then published in the morning.
[Transcript missing]
Because then you're cheating yourself.
Your conviction is not there.
You're doing this because
you believe in it.
It's you and it's real.
You didn't steal, you didn't kill,
and now you're not even ill
because you got the real feel.
If you want to play the guitar,
really play the guitar.
Learn how to play the guitar.
Learn how to play the piano.
Learn how to really sing.
Don't cheat yourself.
If Bessie ain't doing it,
don't copy Bessie.
Because Bessie ain't going nowhere.
If she go in the West,
she ain't gonna be that long.
She'll be back home.
Learn how to really,
really put something in it.
And remember this,
that the grass may look
greener on the other side,
but it's just as hard to cut.
So that was a clip from our
keynote presentation this year.
Most of you, I'm sure,
recognize Little Richard.
And every year we try to have
artists with the benefit of
industry experience do our keynotes.
And then we integrate other aspects
of people in the music industry
throughout the panel's programming.
South by Southwest has a unique set of
constraints because it's a festival,
it's an event.
And we basically go into the space,
which would be the convention center,
and into the clubs.
And we have to set everything
up like in 48 hours.
And then we have to do the event.
And at the same time,
we'd like to capture as much from
the event digitally as possible.
And then we need to cut the stuff and we
need to get it out there on the channels
because we have very little time.
And we have a very fixed amount of time
where spotlight on South by Southwest.
We've got a big promotional push
and we need to take advantage
of the interactive and new media
technologies at our disposal.
So for our video program in particular,
we have a lot of budgetary limitations
due to the fact that we're also
having to put all the production
in the clubs and we have to sort
of do things with the theaters.
So we've got a lot of
physical production.
And then so which leaves us sort of scant
resources from a new media production,
digital production standpoint.
So the way we solve this problem is that
we use volunteers for our production.
And we ask the volunteers that
they provide their own camera,
actually.
We've been going with mini DV primarily
as a format over the last four years
because of just the sheer amount
of proliferation of the device.
And we've been kind of running the
consumer and pro-sumer markets.
So what this does for the volunteer,
though,
is create a unique opportunity for
them to gain exposure at the event
because we try to make sure that
they're credited appropriately.
We'll say this person shot this clip
and this person edited this clip.
And then when they're
meeting people the event,
they have the opportunity to say, oh,
yeah, this is what I'm doing with
this and here's my card.
So the whole social networking
aspect of the event plays really
well into gaining sort of.
A range of talent from from
novice to professional.
So they go out and we deploy
them to shoot the event.
And the main thing that we
focus on is simplicity overall.
We have a fairly elaborate
production scheme,
which I'll talk about in a minute.
But we we try to do it in a guerrilla
fashion whereby for the panels and
stuff we we maybe will plug into the
board and we'll set a camera up in the
back and then we'll send up a close up.
Shot up front for the bigger events.
So we have a two shot to edit between,
you know,
but we don't get more complicated
than that because it creates a lot of
editing time overhead and we need to
get this stuff out quick and we want
to be able to get it out and extensible
to emerging mobile formats as well.
So we've basically chosen something
where we're actually getting a lot
more content than we're currently
able to to use in real time.
So we've basically chosen something
where we're actually getting a lot
more content than we're currently
able to to use in real time.
We focus on the two to
five minute clip or so.
And I think that's next.
Oh, you're talking about that.
OK.
I'll continue with that part later.
So one of the things that South by
Southwest does a really excellent
job at is event promotion and also
promotion for the various films and
bands that participate in the event.
And the typical,
just looking at the music side of this,
the bands will submit songs to
South by Southwest that they want
to use to promote either their
performance or perhaps they have an
album out that they want to tie into.
But basically something that
represents their vision,
their art, and that they want to
emphasize at the event.
The songs that are received by South by
Southwest are encoded into MP3 format and
then they're made available for download
on the South by Southwest website.
And there also,
there was something very new
that happened this year that an
engineer at South by Southwest,
David Rose, had a great idea.
He had a great idea to try to leverage
the songs that we were getting
from the artists through iTunes.
And so the same songs that are encoded
are hosted on a central server and
they're available through iTunes.
And David also did some
additional work to go talk with
the Austin City Wireless Project,
which is kind of a collective
of people that offer free
access points throughout Austin.
And I think there's 50 sites currently.
There's 50 sites during the event,
but now there's like 80.
So this is kind of
blowing up really quickly.
They work in conjunction
with the city as well.
Yeah, so it's pretty much citywide.
While the event's going on,
there are access points
you can walk into.
You can basically bring up iTunes
and get access to these songs.
And this is kind of what this looks like.
This is an example of one of the
access points locally in Austin.
And you can see that there's
the promotion for South by
Southwest with the logo.
And it also has the iTunes tie-in to
let you know that if you have iTunes,
either on your Mac or PC,
and you log into their access point, hey,
there's something really
neat waiting for you.
And this is another login
example that you can see.
And so this is just kind of the
screen that you get when you go enter
one of these places that you have to
log into before you get the access.
I
Okay,
so this is just kind of an example of
what you'd see if you brought up iTunes.
And you can see there's the South by
Southwest 2004 showcasing artists.
And you get a list of all the
songs and all the bands that
are available on the playlist.
And this year we had 600 different songs.
20-some odd.
Yeah.
And it's very cool because you
can browse any -- use all the
tools that you have in iTunes.
You can browse by category or band name
or song and find something that you like.
And I think Scott's going to talk later
about how you can even tie that back
to find the band during the event.
So how does this work?
Basically,
the iTunes sharing is based on something
called the digital audio access
protocol that's proprietary to Apple.
Now, even though it's proprietary,
there are some open source repositories
that implement a server technology
that can be deployed on OS X,
on Linux, on Windows,
on pretty much anything.
And you can run this open source
server and serve your own playlist.
And then there's a second piece,
which is the rendezvous piece.
This is basically the service discovery.
So this is the part that lets you,
when you're in the access
point service area,
lets you know that there's actually
a service here that you can use.
And this was done using
the DNS proxy sample code,
the rendezvous sample code
that's actually available
from the Apple website.
Now there are other ways to do this.
You can do the same
sort of thing with Howl,
which is another
rendezvous implementation.
Rendezvous is also known as
zero configuration or zero conf.
You might know it by that name as well.
The point being is it's
all openly available.
It'll run on a variety of systems.
And basically what happens is we have
the tune served from a central server,
and then at each access point you can
run an instance of this rendezvous.
And then you can run an instance of this
rendezvous client or this rendezvous
server that can relay the server
content to the local access point.
The reason this is necessary,
at least currently,
is that the service is
bound to a local subnet.
So the server itself has its own subnet,
and you need to bridge to
the access point subnet.
Basically this sounds fairly complicated,
but it's really not.
You can download the sample code,
and you don't really have to be
a software engineer to run this.
You basically need to be able
to type make in the console,
and it'll all work out
for you pretty well.
It's not difficult,
but it was a bit of inspired
work on David's part to pull
all these pieces together.
And I'd like to just check with David.
I think David has a surprise
kind of for the audience here.
If you have AirPort here,
you should be able to log in with iTunes
and actually see the playlist here.
We have it relayed here into this
room so that you can see it in action.
If you're curious.
And it's, again,
it's a very powerful concept,
but it's relatively simple and
very inexpensive to set up.
So it fit very well with the philosophy
that South by Southwest has for getting
maximum leverage out of the technology.
So just real quick,
I promise this is as technical as
we'll probably get in the session here,
but I did want to kind of
get this into the slides.
Again, to do this sort of thing
yourself is not difficult.
You just have to go out
and download the code,
build it with your environment of choice.
It might be Xcode on OS X.
It could be just using
standard GCC tools on Linux,
and then install it.
And then there's some fairly
simple configuration that you
need to do to basically advertise
the fact that you have a digital
audio protocol service available,
which is the first line
of blue text there.
And what you're basically
advertising is your IP address,
your database name,
how you'd like your playlist to be
advertised in terms of text in iTunes,
for example,
and then the protocol and the port.
The second line basically just
starts the audio service protocol,
and it's just a single line.
And it's not much more
difficult than that.
So, yeah.
I just like to add that the real
benefit that this has had for us
is that it's really increased the
distribution using cool new technology
while actually all of our audio files
still live on one server actually in
a co-location facility in San Antonio.
So because serving up this
type of content is actually
minimal work for the processor,
this is a pretty old box.
It's like a 500 megahertz box.
But what we've noticed is that a box
is capable of pushing at least 60 gigs
a day in content during the event,
and performance hasn't really suffered.
Okay, and then just as a last note,
that after the event, too,
there is another way,
actually I guess during
the event as well,
but there is another way to get
this same content in the form
of a streaming audio service.
And so if you were to go to
the South by Southwest website,
you could actually download a playlist
file that would show up as essentially
a continuous streaming audio stream
that you could play in iTunes.
And it's, again,
that too is available through,
if you want to try that.
We've gotten a lot of feedback on this
being particularly handy to our attendees
because the big problem that people
have when they attend our event is,
what do I go see?
You've got, at any given time,
you've got 60 bands playing.
You've got 400 bands a night.
What do I go see?
So this is one of the real
problems that sort of drives the
use of new technology for us.
And here, people,
when they're sort of kind
of figuring out... Oh,
they're thinking about the event.
They can launch this.
And if they hear something,
then they click back to iTunes.
They see the band there,
and then they can basically
easily match that with our
scheduling software on our site.
So we got a lot of good feedback
on just having a continuous
random stream for those reasons.
So really the big takeaways
here are just that,
first of all, that Apple technologies and
open source technologies
really do play well together.
It's something that you've
probably heard before,
our experience in trying to do it for
ourselves is that it's really true,
it really is easy, they really do work.
We get a lot of mileage out of using the
standard Apple interfaces for media types
through iTunes and QuickTime Player,
things of that nature,
because it gives a very standard
experience for all the users
that are coming to view or listen
to South by Southwest content.
And it works on Mac and Windows.
Excuse me, didn't quite go there yet.
And again, it's also very simple and
cost effective to set up.
You can get, you know,
everyone that wants to use it, you know,
you can get a lot of
people that want to use it,
you know, you can get a lot of
you know,
but they want to listen to this stuff,
can go get iTunes for free,
they can get QuickTime Player for free,
there's no cost burden on the people who
want to view or listen to the content,
and, you know, that just, that's great.
Nobody wants to pay a lot of money
when they've already paid for Badge,
they just want to find out
what's going on with the bands,
as Scott says.
This is just another way that
we integrated audio content.
For the last three years we've
been developing a sort of
schedule application for Palm OS.
And we had basically a
lot of high demand for,
oh, I want it all in my Palm so that
I can take it with me so that
I can kind of see and navigate.
So we've been adding more and more
features to this over the years.
Now this year we made it so you could
beam your own personal audio content.
So you could see what
you were going to go see.
And also this was a first
for us this year that we,
via Pocket Tunes,
integrated a connection directly to
that same media server in San Antonio so
that if you're on your Palm and
you have a Treo or something and
you're within a Wi-Fi hotspot area,
you can listen to the music
directly on your Palm.
So that was a new sort of like
interesting way to kind of integrate and
again bring audio content and rich media
in general through various channels.
Okay, the production quiro.
Well, I talked about already
how we use only mini DV,
and what I found out when we did
this the first year in 2000 is that
I had a variety of camera types.
I had a Hi8, I had a mini DV,
somebody else had a DV cam,
and essentially,
given the fact that we're trying to
get through so much production in such
a short amount of time with resources,
we really felt like we needed
to standardize so that we
had one type of tape stock.
So that, you know, we could really,
we wouldn't have to worry about whether
we had a deck available for a different
type of media at any given time.
So, again,
it's worked to the extent to which
now we turn people away if they
don't have the type of equipment.
In the future,
we might create a higher quality
production arm as part of our digital
media program and kind of use newer
high quality technologies that way.
But right now, we've been doing mini DV.
So you've got those and you've got your
editors and your quality reviewers and
sort of the way it works since we're not
normally in the convention center space
is we take a room and we turn it into
an editing suite in about six hours.
And the way we can do that really
easily is by using Apple equipment,
Final Cut Pro.
And we basically get a, you know,
an Ethernet connect
into one of our subnets.
So that way, we can get a, you know,
an Ethernet connect
into one of our subnets.
into one of our subnets,
so that we can move content easily.
And we install Final Cut across all the
machines that we have at our disposal,
which varies from year to year,
depending on all sorts of factors.
We also load Cleaner 6 on them.
One year we had a compression
farm available to us,
a Cleaner Central product.
And we did things a
little bit differently.
We sort of like the minute
we were done editing,
we compressed.
But due to sort of
constraints of compression,
what we do is we'll edit all day,
and then we'll compress at night.
So we run this editing suite from, say,
9:00 AM to 6:00 PM,
so that people are freed up to
move around at night to get more
content or to enjoy the event,
heaven forbid.
So that's how we sort of produce all
of our digital video in a nutshell.
So this is just a short clip on
basically how to be a pros drummer.
Do you use storyboards at all or do
you sketch out your shots in advance?
Less and less.
I used to more.
I think that was just insecurity,
like thinking I would be on
the set and not know what I'm
doing and everybody would wait.
So I would plan out each
shot much more in advance.
But now I've enjoyed
[Transcript missing]
We'll do 14 after lunch.
Yeah, no problem.
On my set too, though,
we always have this joke of like,
before lunch it's gone with the wind,
and after lunch it's
the Dukes of Hazzard.
Right.
Because we do three shots.
[Transcript missing]
Here's a photo from this year.
And this is what we used.
Some G5s and then we had a couple
of people bring in their power
books because they were like,
I really want to edit on my thing.
So we let them do that.
And then we used
Final Cut Pro and Cleaner 6,
as I said before.
Because of the simplicity of
the sort of plug and play nature
of this equipment and software,
we don't need to take two days
to build an editing suite.
You really just bring in the power books.
You bring it in and set
it down and plug it in.
And so this is really a really good
thing for us because then we have
editing stations that kind of come and
go throughout the week according to,
well, we need to put this one here.
Oh, and then we need it over here.
So we kind of just balance how many
editors do we have and who's good
and they'll get heavier workflow.
Again, here's the guidelines.
We really try to find that moment.
Rather than get really fancy and
put in motion graphics and do
all sorts of things like that,
we just try to find the moment,
keep it simple, make a few cuts,
and keep the audio
processing to a real minimum.
Sometimes if you've got a sort of
low quality production on the tape,
we'll use sort of built-in EQ and filter,
audio filter effects
that come with Final Cut.
And that's a big reason we don't use,
that we use Final Cut, say,
over something even
more basic like iMovie.
It's because it has the ability
to do the more advanced things,
but it's also really good at
just doing something simple.
So I'll have an editor who's like, well,
I've worked on Avid forever.
And I'm like, oh,
you can learn Final Cut in five minutes.
minutes.
This is a really good thing for us.
[Transcript missing]
So this is just kind of a,
this is another short example of a
piece that I think somebody who was
relatively first time videographer did.
A couple of years ago, yeah.
Yeah, so it's short,
but it talks to the things that
Scott was mentioning earlier about
trying to really capture the salient
key moment of a particular event.
[Transcript missing]
This is a very important point,
which is I want to first
of all thank my wife.
Here he was doing an introduction
and Q&A at the Paramount Theater,
which is one of Austin's
oldest movie spaces.
Well, there you have it.
Oh, you might have noticed that all these
pieces have like a motion bumper sort
of graphic thing on the front of it.
Well, it's something we've tried to
do for the last three years is
basically make one for interactive
and one for film and one for music.
And we'll basically just take a
finished motion graphics piece
that a friend of mine was doing
for us and we'll just drop it in.
We'll put it on all the different
editing stations and say,
oh, before you finish up,
we need to drop that in.
And it just becomes easily
part of the final cut movie.
So let's talk a little bit about
the delivery aspect of this in
terms of what the goals are with
actually making the media available.
And the goal was to have,
basically we recognize that not everybody
has DSL or even ISDN source of lines.
We still feel like there are enough
people out there that have slow
connections that we need a low
bandwidth version of the media.
But we'd also like to provide a really
good experience for the people who
really do have the fast connections.
So we want both high and
low bandwidth versions.
And obviously we want this to play
in as many platforms as possible.
And of course we get that
with QuickTime because it can
play in a variety of different
browsers on Mac OS and Windows.
It's perfect for what we need.
And you get the standard user
experience no matter which platform
you're using or what browser.
We also get the benefit of we want the
playback to begin as quickly as possible.
We don't want the guy to go
click on a link and then wait
and watch a progress bar.
There are also cases where we want
some basic content protection with
the media where you can't just
sort of arbitrarily download it
and go post it wherever you want.
We really want people
to come to the South by
Southwest site to get this media.
Also, we didn't want any particular
licensing restrictions in terms
of whatever technologies we use.
Glenn Bullich, Scott Wilcox,
Gary Woodcock We want to make sure that
we're using the technologies we use
to produce the media and deploy it.
So basically MPEG-4 and AAC actually
fit the bill very well for us.
It does well at low bandwidths
and relatively high bandwidths.
It's certainly available
since it's in QuickTime.
It's on Mac OS and Windows.
And since we're delivering
as a QuickTime movie,
we get all those nice things like we can
get progressive download and fast start.
Glenn Bullich, Scott Wilcox,
Gary Woodcock And we can disable
saving and all the standard things
that you get as part of using
QuickTime as your deployment media.
So in terms of preparing the media,
in keeping with the keep it
simple sort of philosophy,
we really don't do a lot of filtering,
and we're always starting
from the same media.
So we don't need 50 different settings,
we're always starting from DV.
And we have a low bandwidth
setting that we used in Cleaner,
and those are the parameters
for those who are curious.
It's basically just the standard
sort of postage stamp video that
you would get on a 56K modem.
But it's MPEG-4, it looks pretty good,
and you have pretty decent audio with it.
For high bandwidth,
we went to a quarter screen 320x240,
and it's full frame rate,
and you get very nice stereo sound.
And in fact,
the clips that we've actually
been viewing here are the
exact same high bandwidth clips
that we encoded for the show.
So they're not something
we've used in the past.
We did special for the show.
It's just what you see up on our website.
So that's what we've
been watching here today,
and it looks pretty good.
So I think Scott touched on
this a little bit earlier.
We do try to do some basic automation.
Cleaner 6 has the ability to
basically have drop folders where
you can take your source media,
drop it in, and just have it sort of
automatically run through whatever
settings files you're using.
We use the full resolution
DV media output from Final Cut Pro.
Just drop it into the desktop folder.
The editor doesn't really have
to know anything about it.
It gets picked up and processed and
dropped into a review folder for the
quality reviewer to come and look at.
We also get film trailers for the
people that are doing premieres,
and we'll encode these
in exactly the same way,
so they're the high and low bandwidth
versions of the film trailers as well.
They're available during the show,
so if you want to check out to see what's
worth seeing in terms of the premieres,
what kinds of things match your taste,
you can go check those out.
And they're available before,
actually before the show,
during the show,
and after the show as well.
One thing I did want to point out
is we have been experimenting with
mobile media and it's a very important
aspect to some of the future directions
that Scott will talk about later.
Something we've played with is Konoma.
Now this isn't part of QuickTime,
but it is a QuickTime movie exporter.
So it fits very nicely into the
QuickTime centric flow that we
have in terms of the production.
It will run on standard Palm OS devices,
things like the Trios will play it,
any of the Sony devices.
It can be targeted for
playback on any color device.
You don't have to necessarily
worry about whether it's going
to play on a particular version
of Palm OS or a particular model.
Konoma will actually take
care of all that for you.
The interesting thing about this
is that the Palm devices by and
large have the IR transceiver.
So once somebody has this,
they can actually beam the media
to another device at the show.
They can, you know,
hey this is a very cool clip or hey
you might want to go check this out.
They can actually just
beam it to somebody.
They can look at it.
They can share it.
It kind of just proliferates
on its own throughout the show.
You can also download
these things from the net.
If you've got a web enabled phone,
you can pull these things down
and play them in the player.
One of the questions you might have is,
well gee, why Konoma?
Why not 3GPP?
We're very keen on being
able to do 3GPP stuff.
Currently we find that there's actually
more people with Palm devices that
attend the show than people with 3GPP.
Probably not a big surprise
to most people in here.
So we are doing the
Konoma stuff right now,
but to go to the 3GPP or say
H.264 in the future really doesn't
perturb our workflow at all.
It's just another QuickTime plug-in.
We can use the same production
flow we've been using.
It's really no change.
So QuickTime really makes this very,
very convenient for us and very flexible.
Okay,
future directions as Gary was saying.
3G is definitely something that
we've been interested in a long time.
And given the sort of content sizes,
the two minute movie,
the 30 second movie,
we think that this is going to be really
not a very difficult transition for
us in terms of our production change.
I think we'd also like to get into some
more sort of full live broadcast stuff.
But there's only so many volunteers
and only so much equipment.
And basically, there's just we have to
dedicate more resources,
more equipment, and better talent to
basically put and say,
yeah, we're going to do just
the live broadcast.
The thing is, because we use sort of
volunteer camera people,
everything they shoot is not good.
I mean, you know,
Right now we've got about 500 hours
of footage from the last four years.
We did 200 of that this year.
And I haven't really been
able to watch or log it all,
definitely not.
And there's some great stuff
and there's some just atrocious,
like why were you filming the floor?
And the thing about, you know,
we basically have to put
a higher quality sort of
production team on the live stuff.
But it's definitely something
we're working towards and something
we'd like to do in the future.
We also have been,
we did RFID stuff for the first time
this year and I think we'd also like
to continue to look how our sort of
badging authentication systems because
we have the whole access control thing.
How we can get that to play with
the delivery of our digital media,
you know.
[Transcript missing]
So lots of possible things
to do in the future.
And we're just trying to figure out how
we can come at it at different angles
and utilize the new technologies for
a huge real time sort of deployment.
Kind of, you know,
it is a case-- it's a built
in case study because every
year we're trying new things.
Oh, that didn't work.
Or wow, that kind of worked.
And you know, and that's just sort
of how we've developed.
And I find that integrating
new technologies available,
especially along the lines
of what we've been using now,
is a great thing for
our attendees to see.
Because they're in the entertainment
industry and they're thinking,
oh my god, what are we going to do,
you know, with all this new stuff?
How are we going to play in digital
space with the relationships we have?
So, I mean,
just some closing remarks that we'd
like you to go away with here is that,
you know, as we talked about at the
outset of the session,
South by Southwest really has
kind of a different problem than
perhaps a lot of you are used to.
It's really about trying to process
a lot of media at a very good
quality level very quickly with high
turnaround and to make it simple.
You know, to keep things very easy,
very simple,
very reliable so that things don't
break down during the show because
it is a very compressed time scale.
It can be very stressful.
So, QuickTime really helps us with this
problem because I think one of the
things that perhaps people miss.
about QuickTime is that
If you just do the simple things
with the tools that Apple has,
the base quality level is
really quite impressive.
Yes,
you probably could make some better video
output or perhaps some better compression
than what perhaps you've seen today,
but just what you do out of the
box with the very simple stuff
with fairly untrained people or
novices is really quite amazing.
And QuickTime really makes that possible.
And South by Southwest with
the kind of resources we have,
it really wouldn't be possible
without something like QuickTime.
Well, it eases the learning curve for
the people that are doing the work,
too, because, oh, I've played with that.
Oh, I'm familiar with that.
So we've got a whole lot of
people that we work with who
have already used the products,
are already familiar with trying
to put their stuff out there.
And so we kind of follow along those
lines because there's already enough
to do with getting our volunteers who
have never worked together before,
except maybe the year before,
all sort of in this rapid production
environment and working together and
answering each other's questions.
And so the less obstacles and the less
variables we introduce to this situation,
the better off we are.
And then we also have the headway
with the tools to increase quality.
As people become better or as we get
return volunteers from years past,
their skills increase,
the tools are the same,
it scales as their capabilities
and experiences scale.
Now I guess the other point we'd
like to leave you with is just,
you know, hey,
it really is easy to integrate
QuickTime technologies and
Apple technologies with some of these
open source solutions that are out there.
It takes a little research on the web,
but there's really some amazing things
that you can do integration-wise that may
seem sort of intimidating to start with,
but really with a little
bit of investigation you can
do some incredible things,
as David has certainly
shown with the iTunes app.
stuff that we deployed this year.
And with that, we have a parting clip of
John Landis talking about
digital tools in filmmaking.
There's no such thing as
the artistry of filmmaking.
This is interesting about film.
Film is not art.
People don't understand that.
Film is craft.
Filmmakers are craftsmen,
just like carpenters.
But a carpenter can make a chair that
The Carpenter can be
Charles Eames or Chippendale,
but the vast majority
of chairs are just that,
chairs.
And they're sturdy and they function,
they sit on them.
I have a very dear friend who's a
great filmmaker named David Cronenberg.
David actually considers himself an
artist and he's one of the few filmmakers
I know who can seriously discuss his work
as an artist and not sound like a putz.
I mean he's very serious about it and
David's brilliant and I always say,
"How do you do that,
David?" And I come off like a jerk,
you know.
Because I know a lot of filmmakers,
very famous filmmakers,
who discuss their work
like that and I think,
"Oh, shut the f*ck up." Like who?
Never mind.
A little bit more.
People always go,
"How do you feel about the lack,
you know,
the fact that there won't be film
in ten years?" And there won't be.
It's just, well, that's what's happening.
Filmmaking as a craft is so new.
I mean, we're talking about something
that's a hundred years old.
A hundred years old.
I mean, sculpture, painting, you know,
I mean, they've had a lot of time,
you know.
Filmmakers had a hundred years.
And so,
the equipment's evolving all the time.
And I think the biggest change
in film was probably talkies.
And the first time that happened,
that was a shattering blow
that I personally don't think
film has ever recovered from.
Sound?
Absolutely.
Because before sound,
film was completely international.
And sound came in and made
it the Tower of Babel.
And it just, it's sad.
It's sad.
Anyway.
But in terms of tools, they're tools.
And I think everything
depends how you use it.
Thanks very much.